---
title: DataSpread 0.1
---

#DataSpread 0.1#
###*Released on Dec 14, 2016.*###
[Check it now](http://kite.cs.illinois.edu:8080)

##Introduction
  * DataSpread is a data exploration tool that holistically unifies databases and spreadsheets with a goal to work with massive spreadsheets. 
  * DataSpread retains all the advantages of spreadsheets, including ease of use, ad-hoc analysis, and visualization capabilities, and a schema-free nature, while also adding the scalability and collaboration abilities of traditional relational databases. 

##What's New
  * Scale to billions of cells and return results for common operations within seconds
  * Allow import and export Excel files and CSV files
  * 225+ Excel formula functions
  * Formatting, Styling, Freezing rows/columns

##Installation
  * Required Software
    * Tomcat 8.5.4
    * Java JDK 8
    * PostgreSQL 9.5
  * Setup

##Features Updates
###On-demand loading
  - DataSpread only loads the necessary data to the sheet for the performance reason.

###Book operations
  - The books will be auto-saved once modified, the operations allowed are Load, Rename, Delete and Import(XLS,XLSX).

###Sheet operations
  - The operations allowed are Save, Rename, Delete, Reorder, Import(CSV).

###Row/Column operations
  - The operations allowed are Insert, Delete, Cut, Copy and Paste.
  - For insert and delete, formula shifting is automatically handled.

###Data operations
  - The operations allowed are editing, formula, formatting.

##Current Issues:
  * [1:sheet scrolling has a delay in display](Link URL)
  * [2: sorting not working](Link URL)
  * [3: copy sheet not working](Link URL)
